Add lesson on HTML forms (#1353)
Techtonica/curriculum: web/html-forms.md

# HTML Forms

### Projected Time

1.5 hours

- Lesson: 30min
- Guided Practice: 1hour
- Independent Practice: 2hour

### Prerequisites

- [HTML lesson](./html.md)

### Motivation

- Forms are one of the essential topics in HTML.

> - They are widely used in almost all websites in order to gather the required information of user.

Reviewer: - They are widely used in almost all websites in order to gather the required information from users.

### Objectives

- How to create HTML forms.
- How to add validation in the attributes.
- How to submit the form.

### Lesson

HTML Form is one of the very useful aspect which has vaste usage when some information about the user has to be stored. It can be said as a document where different kind of information such as name, email, blood group, contact number and other such information can be stored.
When the user/visitor enters the details in the form, it is posted to the backend server where the processing is done and then the necessary data is stored in the database.
There are various elements which can be used in the form which are as follows:
1. Input element : It is the most commonly used field in the form which allows the user to specify different types of values. It can be text field, number field, password field, checkbox etc.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the input element.

```
<form>
    <label for="name">Name:</label>

>     <input type="text" name="name" id="name">

Reviewer 2: Please explain what does `for`, `name` and `id` refers to.

</form>
```

Label is an element which is used to provide the context of the input field. Like in the above example the input field is provided to enter the Name.
Type is used to define the type of the input box. 

> Checkbox is a type of input field which allows the user to select options from the given choices. 

Reviewer 2: Make them in points.

```
<form>
    <select id="fruits" name="fruits">
    <option value="apple">Apple</option>
    <option value="mango">Mango</option>
    <option value="banana">Banana</option>
    </select>
</form>
```

3. Textarea Element : It can be seen as an input field only which allows text in multiple lines.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the Textarea Element.

```
<form>
    <label for="message">Message:</label>
    <textarea rows="2" cols="30" name="message"  id="message"></textarea>
</form>
```

4. Button Element : It is a clickable element which is usually used to submit the data.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the Button Element.

```
<form>
    <button type="button">Click Me!</button>
</form>
```

#### Validation Attribute
HTML elements which allows restriction in the form elements are the validation attribute.
1. Readonly Attribute : This attribute do not allow any text to be entered in the input field.
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value="Shreya" readonly><br>
  <label for="email">Email:</label><br>

>   <input type="email" id="email" name="email" value="shreyakapoor98@gmail.com">

Reviewer 2: There is no need of these lines here. Please remove similar invalid lines from `Disabled Attribute` and `Size Attribute` sections also. 
Don't you think there are some more important validation attributes like `required`, `minlength`, `maxlength` etc. that too needs to be add?

</form>
```

2. Disabled Attribute : In this the input field is disabled and we cannot click on it. 
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value="Shreya" disabled><br>
  <label for="email">Email:</label><br>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" value="shreyakapoor98@gmail.com">
</form>
```

3. Size Attribute: This attribute defines the width of the input field.
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" size="40"><br>
  <label for="number">Number:</label><br>
  <input type="number" id="number" name="number" size="4">
</form>
```

#### Submit and Action for Non AJAX Form
After the user enters the details, the data or the information is passed for further processing. 

> Input field of type submit is taken to submit the data and action is specified corresponding to it. In case of non AJAX forms the action is GET.

Reviewer 2: Please explain properly what is `Submit` and `Action`. Mention all the `Action` types we have in html. And what do you mean  by `In case of non-ajax forms the action is Get`.

Reviewer 2: @shreyakapoor08 What about this one?

The get request includes all the data in the URL.

> Following code snippet shows the illustration of submission of form.

Reviewer: Following code, the snippet shows the illustration of the submission of the form.

```
<form action="/submit_action.php" method="get">
  <label for="name">Name:</label>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name">
  <label for="address">Address:</label>
  <input type="text" id="address" name="address">
   <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>
```

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

- **Javascript must be known to make an HTML form**
Only basic knowledge of HTML is required to create a form in HTML.

### Independent Practice

> Try making out forms and apply the concepts which you have learnt from this. [Click here to practice](https://codepen.io/lauralikespi/pen/WJaqJe) .

Reviewer: Try making out forms and apply the concepts which you have learned from this. [Click here to practice](https://codepen.io/lauralikespi/pen/WJaqJe).

> Try making out forms and apply the concepts which you have learnt from this. [Click here to practice](https://codepen.io/lauralikespi/pen/WJaqJe) .

Reviewer 2: Please add some other link for independent practice which displays only a basic form with minimal css and javascript.

# HTML Forms

### Projected Time

1.5 hours

- Lesson: 30min
- Guided Practice: 1hour

> - Independent Practice: 2hour

Reviewer 3: I like your Independent Practice, but I don't think it will take two hours!
```suggestion
- Independent Practice: 1 hour
```

### Prerequisites

- [HTML lesson](./html.md)

### Motivation

- Forms are one of the essential topics in HTML.
- They are widely used in almost all websites in order to gather the required information from users.

### Objectives

- How to create HTML forms.
- How to add validation in the attributes.
- How to submit the form.

### Lesson

> HTML Form is one of the very useful aspect which has vaste usage when some information about the user has to be stored. It can be said as a document where different kind of information such as name, email, blood group, contact number and other such information can be stored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HTML Form is one of the most popular ways to gather user information and send it to to an application. It is also the most correct. For example, it can be used to collect things like a name and email in a sign-up form.
```

- The for attribute of the `<label>` tag should be equal to the id attribute of the `<input>` element to bind them together.
- The name attribute specifies the name of an `<input>` element.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet when the input type is checkbox.

```
<form>
  <input type="checkbox" id="apple" name="apple" value="Apple">
  <label for="apple">Apple</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="mango" name="mango" value="Mango">
  <label for="mango">Mango</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="banana" name="banana" value="Banana">
  <label for="banana">Banana</label>
</form>
```

Another important type of input field is date. This field allows user to enter only date
Following is an example which shows the code snippet when the input type is date.
```
<form>
  <label for="dob">DOB:</label>
  <input type="date" id="dob" name="dob">
</form>
```

2. Select Element : It is used when we have to provide options to the user in the dropdown.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the Select element.

```
<form>
    <select id="fruits" name="fruits">

>     <option value="apple">Apple</option>

Reviewer 3: please indent the options so they're nested in the select tags like this: https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_select.asp

    <option value="mango">Mango</option>
    <option value="banana">Banana</option>
    </select>
</form>
```

> 3. Textarea Element : It can be seen as an input field only which allows text in multiple lines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Textarea Element : An input field that accepts multiple lines of text.
```

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the Textarea Element.

```
<form>
    <label for="message">Message:</label>
    <textarea rows="2" cols="30" name="message"  id="message"></textarea>
</form>
```

4. Button Element : It is a clickable element which is usually used to submit the data.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the Button Element.

```
<form>

>     <button type="button">Click Me!</button>

Reviewer 3: Can you tell them about the different button types, too? https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button#attr-type

</form>
```

> #### Validation Attribute

Reviewer 3: Is this singular, or should it be "Validation Attributes"?

HTML elements which allows restriction in the form elements are the validation attribute.
1. Readonly Attribute : This attribute do not allow any text to be entered in the input field.
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value="Shreya" readonly><br>
  <label for="email">Email:</label><br>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" value="shreyakapoor98@gmail.com">
</form>
```

2. Disabled Attribute : In this the input field is disabled and we cannot click on it. 
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>

>   <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value="Shreya" disabled><br>

Reviewer 2: Remove `<br>` from here and all other places where you have used it.

Type is used to define the type of the input box. 
Checkbox is a type of input field which allows the user to select options from the given choices. 
Following is an example which shows the code snippet when the input type is checkbox.

```
<form>
  <input type="checkbox" id="apple" name="apple" value="Apple">
  <label for="apple">Apple</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="mango" name="mango" value="Mango">
  <label for="mango">Mango</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="banana" name="banana" value="Banana">
  <label for="vehicle3">Banana</label>
</form>
```
<form>
  <input type="checkbox" id="apple" name="apple" value="Apple">
  <label for="apple">Apple</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="mango" name="mango" value="Mango">
  <label for="mango">Mango</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="banana" name="banana" value="Banana">
  <label for="vehicle3">Banana</label>
</form>

Another important type of input field is date. This field allows user to enter only date
Following is an example which shows the code snippet when the input type is date.
```
<form>
  <label for="dob">DOB:</label>
  <input type="date" id="dob" name="dob">
</form>

> ```

Author: here is the date

Input field of type submit is taken to submit the data and action is specified corresponding to it. In case of non AJAX forms the action is GET.
The get request includes all the data in the URL.
Following code snippet shows the illustration of submission of form.
```
<form action="/submit_action.php" method="get">
  <label for="name">Name:</label>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name">
  <label for="address">Address:</label>
  <input type="text" id="address" name="address">
   <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>
```
<form action="/submit_action.php" method="get">
  <label for="name">Name:</label>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name">
  <label for="address">Address:</label>
  <input type="text" id="address" name="address">
   <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

- **Javascript must be known to make an HTML form**
Only basic knowledge of HTML is required to create a form in HTML.

### Independent Practice
Try making out forms and apply the concepts which you have learnt from this. [Click here to practice](https://codepen.io/lauralikespi/pen/WJaqJe) .

> 

Author: Done :)

1. Get : In this the form is sent as a URL variable. This is the default method while submitting the data.
2. Post : In this the form is sent as HTTP post transaction. It is preferred to use when the form contains personal details.

Following code, the snippet shows the illustration of the submission of the form.
```
<form action="/submit_action.php" method="get">
  <label for="name">Name:</label>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name">
  <label for="address">Address:</label>
  <input type="text" id="address" name="address">
   <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>
```
In the above example the form data is sent to a page on the server called "/submit_action.php". This page contains a server-side script that handles the form data and the method is GET which will send the data as a URL parameter.

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

- **Javascript must be known to make an HTML form**
Only basic knowledge of HTML is required to create a form in HTML.

### Independent Practice
Try making out forms and apply the concepts which you have learned from this. [Click here to practice](https://www.w3schools.com/html/exercise.asp?filename=exercise_html_forms2) .

> ## Guided Practice

Reviewer 3: This outline looks great!  I have 2 comments:
1. The order should always be: Guided Practice,  Independent Practice, Check for Understanding Supplemental Materials.
2.  Be sure to follow the AC's, which describe what independent practice should be:
Independent practice
Learn about what happens when a form is submitted. Are there echo/debug servers that can print out what is submitted to the server?

Target location: /web/html-forms.md

3. I like your current  Independent Practice activity, though... could have it in a "Check for understanding" section instead?

Author: 1. I didn't get what do you mean by AC's .
2. Do I have to add the content about  "what happens when a form is submitted. Are there echo/debug servers that can print out what is submitted to the server"?
3. I have added the independent practice activity in check for understanding..now should I search something else for independent practice?

### Lesson

> HTML Form is one of the most popular ways to gather user information and send it to to an application. It is also the most correct. For example, it can be used to collect things like a name and email in a sign-up form.

Reviewer 4: The line `It is also the most correct.` doesn't make any sense. So better to edit it to make it meaningful.

  <label for="vehicle3">Banana</label>
</form>
```
<form>
  <input type="checkbox" id="apple" name="apple" value="Apple">
  <label for="apple">Apple</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="mango" name="mango" value="Mango">
  <label for="mango">Mango</label><br>
  <input type="checkbox" id="banana" name="banana" value="Banana">
  <label for="vehicle3">Banana</label>

> </form>

Reviewer 4: Why have you added same code as above again ?

  <input type="date" id="dob" name="dob">
</form>
```
<form>
  <label for="dob">DOB:</label>
  <input type="date" id="dob" name="dob">

> </form>

Reviewer 4: Same here

    </select>
</form>
```
<form>
    <select id="fruits" name="fruits">
    <option value="apple">Apple</option>
    <option value="mango">Mango</option>
    <option value="banana">Banana</option>
    </select>
</form>

> 

Reviewer 4: Here too

3. Textarea Element : It can be seen as an input field only which allows text in multiple lines.

Following is an example which shows the code snippet to declare the Textarea Element.

```
<form>
    <label for="message">Message:</label>
    <textarea rows="2" cols="30" name="message"  id="message"></textarea>
</form>
```
<form>
    <label for="message">Message:</label>
    <textarea rows="2" cols="30" name="message"  id="message"></textarea>
</form>

> 

Reviewer 4: Here too.

    <button type="button">Click Me!</button>
</form>
```
<form>
    <button type="button">Click Me!</button>

> </form>

Reviewer 4: Here too

#### Validation Attribute
HTML elements which allows restriction in the form elements are the validation attribute.
1. Readonly Attribute : This attribute do not allow any text to be entered in the input field.
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value="Shreya" readonly><br>
  <label for="email">Email:</label><br>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" value="shreyakapoor98@gmail.com">
</form>
```
<form>
  <label for="name">Name:</label><br>
  <input type="text" id="name" name="name" value="Shreya" readonly><br>
  <label for="email">Email:</label><br>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" value="shreyakapoor98@gmail.com">

> </form>

Reviewer 4: Why is same code written twice ?

Author: @Kundan28 I have just used the same labels, but the purpose of each is different like in this, the validation attribute is read only which i have applied on the input field

Author: Ohhh you mean the same code above and below, because the above code shows the code snippet and the below code shows the output of it in md file

Author: I will just send you the screenshot

Reviewer 4: I don't see any difference in both the code.
So could you highlight it and show it to me ?

Reviewer 4: I checked it.

Reviewer 4: No need to send screenshot.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31164665/80826821-7d66d000-8c00-11ea-98e0-b04b7644a9fc.png)

right side shows the preview

Reviewer 4: Thanks, it's fine. Have a look at other comments that I made.

```

#### Submit and Action for Non AJAX Form
- *Submit* : After the user enters the details which are asked, the data or the information is passed for further processing. Input field of type submit is taken to submit the data.

> - *Action* :  and action is specified corresponding to it. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- *Action* : and action is specified corresponding to it. 
```

```

#### Submit and Action for Non AJAX Form
- *Submit* : When the user enters the details which are asked, the data or the information is passed for further processing. Input field of type submit is taken to submit the data.

> - *Action* :  The action attribute defines the action to be performed when the form is submitted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- *Action* : The action attribute defines the action to be performed when the form is submitted.
```

   <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

- **Javascript must be known to make an HTML form**
Only basic knowledge of HTML is required to create a form in HTML.

### Independent Practice

> Try making out forms and apply the concepts which you have learnt from this. [Click here to practice](https://codepen.io/lauralikespi/pen/WJaqJe?__cf_chl_captcha_tk__=565fed7dbb91fe1df4f7b05a0e6efaeca1b9b07a-1588353121-0-AYquSEqeB1GnTKu5l61jhXsKUkZ0sDRu4PJ2hHGip4bZPznVb8IVpFILojgqAFk2k_KIx2BpD-e-zxSPk4oS67Kop9XY3sTK6ov27hlbXRJXNgAkt9uDMZ6VOC9OV3gv2ZnLC0sB7Hfy4Fs8wT7ARFSEEah2oW3n-JA6887sRCkVUD5IIIBEMaOiNbnYSrdtPf4ZC22hinKlu2ut7XbcUoViR3xOQ4GvEtmfXbkn1njWHI_LXubhxiVCqDa9i-YMjowZh_sJJl4jiJNTjeNtkOOshJnqLsWJKdvGTnYIVA9T9gkIraPSCAQku0yM_p1khobmyQiZC82iabAf2Otwoxl9ywwXBChCKNISTdg-zRfmjmJ6QyLuMVz34aH7FkWW-4YCFTQEmSxOS50P-UX-pF7eZyRQwyG3JFlAawyHmnuvnz76xzXgSELg65ml28QtvyAvgUFt9m8DfgNA-goa3oD3FBgk9hXat2OyTPjiM34i_SS3slycCLSRWTr4LylS1jbmYs8TzC7jpxJZ9jGpUhvB2gqT9SyTjtFOsticWbwDg-N1mvkSyi6JUXIbG9lU9oD2aSncJVh_pY_u7ej9Wq4) .

Reviewer 4: Change the link to `https://codepen.io/lauralikespi/pen/WJaqJe`
